# backyardmap
CHI Second Rapid Development Project
Project Vision Document

Title:
Curation to Context: A Map of Your Own Backyard

Project Description:
This project aims to bring the museum to your own backyard through virtual accessibility with a focus on POC communities on a website platform. The project will choose items across three different museums (National Museum of African American History and Culture, Birmingham Civil Rights Institute, District Six Museum) and map them on the website allowing users to explore the items. First in conjunction with one another on the map, and second, individually on separate subpages. By bringing these multiple museums together this project will allow the users to experience regional traditions from their own community and see how they disperse on a global scale. These museums were chosen to give access to POC neighborhoods and history in a way that is overlooked in most American History museums. The motivation of “Curation to Context: A Map of Your Own Backyard” is to give individuals access to their local history, delineating where items in museums are coming from and putting the collections in context, back to their origins. The significance of this project is to connect history to today’s local communities. This will allow outreach to communities allowing culture to not be contained within an institutionalized, exclusive system. It is important to allow this outreach to communities allowing education and connection to local history through tangible items moving isolated museum items out of curation and into context.
 
Deliverables/Outcomes:
By visiting backyardmap.org users have a chance to explore and learn about history through the lives and objects of the average person. The landing site of backyardmap.org is an interactive map/timeline, each location listed will have a brief overview of its history and feature some of the objects in the various collections that are from that location. Users can choose to look at specific locations on the map or select specific objects. When looking at a location, a more in depth history will be shown alongside objects from there that are in various collections. They will also have access to archives that feature oral histories from those various locations. Users can then pick a specific object. When an item is selected, users will be directed to a subpage that will focus on information on that item. Some items listed will feature interactive 3D scans, allowing users to interact in a closer way. In the end, backyardmap.org will give visitors a more interactive way to explore various museum collections and learn about the history of their own backyard.

Functionality & Technology:
The proposed project will take the form as an interactive map where each item is represented by a pin. The location of the pin is determined by the area the item was selected from. Hovering over a pin will prompt a pop-out window that contains a description of the item and pressing the pin will gray-out all other items and sketch the path the item made before arriving at the destination the museum found it in. The interactive map will be based on the Google Map API, the item data, including location, history, and background, will be gathered through the Museum system (e.g. National Museum of African American History and Culture: https://learninglab.si.edu/). Additionally, the users will also be able to interact with the map using a search menu. This will allow the users to limit the results to items based on keywords or ones found in a specific location and search radius.  Additional software such as Aniwaa or Agisoft photogrammetry applications will be utilized to provide additional mediums of interaction with specific items in this digital collection. This archive will be maintained on a dedicated website.

Audience:
The project has the potential to be of great interest for a variety of communities. While traditional museum displays play up the artifacts themselves this project emphasizes the story behind the item and it’s temporal, geographic aspects. This project can be of great benefit to the general public. However, the proposed medium could be of particular interest to the POC communities from which these items originate, as this map presents a chance for everyday people to see themselves in objects that have been elevated. Finally, by aggregating collections from several different museums, and visualizing them in an easy to understand map, this project could also become a useful tool for the research community.   


Data, Information, Content:
In this project we draw from the vast array of digitized archives that can be found for different museums including the museum website itself but also utilizing the Instagram pages of the institutions. These resources include: the Birmingham Civil Rights Museum (Instagram, Website), The National Museum of African American History and Culture (Instagram, Website), and the District Six Museum (Website 1, Website 2).

Partners:
Backyardmap.org will work with three institutions for the start of this project, hoping to later include more collections. The institutional partners are the National Museum of African American History and Culture, The Birmingham Civil RIghts Institute, and The District Six Museum. Each institution will grant permission to access their data archives, digital archives of items in their collection, and digitized oral histories. If already available, each institution will also share 3D scans of their objects or work with backyardmap.org to scan objects for future use.

